Hi friends.
In this video, we are going to discuss about sed command and that too.
That is very basic introduction to set.
Let me start that.
So what is said? So you know,
cities like a command in your Unix-like systems.
And sed command stands for stream editor.
That means it is an editor which is used to work on the stream of data, right?
That means the data may be from a file or from the output of any command.
Right?
So you can use sed command,
like an editor to work with.
Any output comes from a command or on a file, right?
And you can do some operations,
some functions on your file using your set command.
And they are like, you know, viewing file content.
That means you can view the content of your file using set command.
Or you can say that you can use sed command like a cat command also.
So what is the purpose of cat command, right?
The same way you can use sed command also.
That is the very first of function of your set command.
Then searching, just assume that you have
some file or some output from any command, right?
Simply hasn't already how some file.
Now what I want to ease in general,
printing all lines instead of viewing the content of your entire file,
I want to print or view
the lines which are having some particular word or some particular pattern.
Right?
So in that case, just assume that somebody, how you're required,
some XOR here, some x Word or year, some Export.
Now, I want to print the lines which are having X world.
I don't want to print this line.
I don't want to print this second line and I don't want to print the last length.
So I want to print the lines which are having particular pattern or a particular word.
That means something.
Yes, you can use your set command in that way also.
Okay.
Then find and replace.
So whatever you are searching,
no, in that case,
you can also replace your particular word with some other world.
Right?
That is fine and replace insertion or deletion.
So if you want to delete some lines, right?
Or if you want delete some content of your file,
yes. You can delete.
Or if you want to insert a new data, yes,
you can insert your data using new sed command in your file.
Right?
So these are the main functions of your set command.
Okay?
And set also supports regular expression, which allows eight.
Perform complex pattern matching, right?
You should have something with a normal words.
You can write some pattern.
Pattern going is going to represent multiple words.
So in the, in that way also you can use sed command.
Anyway, we will see well going forward about
this regular expression and all those things, right?
Fine. No.
See we are already some VaR,
VaR Mater's on your Unix-like systems.
Right?
Then why we are going with said editor?
Right? What is the unknown days offset over VaR, VaR murders?
So studies also want to read or write.
Then already we have VA, VA omega.
Then what is the advantage?
Simple.
If you want to work with any file using via yada,
open your files, then you have to work with that file.
But using said in only to open edit your files without opening it.
So that is the advantage of said over you or VaR, VaR editor's, right.
Fine.
Now, whenever if you want to work with, you know,
like AWPA or cut command,
you have some syntax for that.
The same way.
You have some basic syntax of a set command.
So that is like I said, some options.
Then commands means whatever the action you want to perform that you heard right here,
then file to work with your set command, right?
Of course, you can also run in this way.
I mean any command,
any command and that output.
You can also pipeline with your sed command.
So this is also possible.
I didn't mentioned here, but it is also possible, you know,
you can run some command and
that command output you can provide as an input for your set command.
That is also possible. Anyway, we'll see that again while going forward.
Right? Fine.
So there is, first of all, just remember this is the basic syntax for your sed command.
Set some options.
Then commands means whatever action you want to perform on your file,
then your file to work with your set command.
Right?
Then how said works?
So Ks c, that is the symbols a diagram
to represent your sed command I'm in how to work with your set command.
So said we will read line by line from your input on each and every line,
whatever the command D Hall,
right, that command will execute.
And based on that command,
whatever the result you are going to get,
that result will display on your output stream by default on your terminal, right?
If you want to redirect that into any file, Yes,
you can read on it with the help of your redirection symbols.
So nothing is there.
Already we know a WK cut commands, right?
So edible again, cut command or also you're going to work on each and every line.
And then based on whatever the commands or actually you
are providing your applicant cut command.
Based on that, you are going to get your output.
That output is going to display on your terminal.
Or you can also redirect that into any file.
Right? So that, that is the sed command working operation.
So same as you are cut and the replicate command.
So guess what I'm saying is yes,
are you me how some file number of lines.
So whatever the option you are giving,
but all the commands you are giving based on this,
these action will work on each and every line, right?
Based on this logic or command or action.
If this line is satisfying,
then that line will display on your terminal, right?
And based on some options,
you can also directly edit
your content inside of your file without displaying anything on your terminal.
Okay?
So for time being, you just remember you will set command is going to
work on each and every line of your input. That's it.
Ok.
So here's while we're going forward,
we will work separately on each and every functions like this one.
So next video use like viewing file content,
offer that searching, offer that find and
replace and then after that insertion or deletion.
Then finally we will go with the regular expressions.
So next, gee, how this four,
this one video for this concept, one video,
then 345 videos you have, right?
Just to go through that phi videos so that you'll be good with your sed command.
Okay?
Okay. Thank you for watching this video.